Many classifiers in scikit learn can
provide information about the uncertainty
associated with a particular prediction
either by using the decision function
method or the predict proba method.
When given a set of test points,
the decision function method provides for
each one a classifier score value
that indicates how confidently
classifier predicts the positive class.
So there will be large
magnitude positive scores for
those points, or
it predicts a negative class,
there'll be large magnitude negative
scores for negative points.
Here's an example in the notebook
showing the first few instances from our
classification problem using
a logistic regression classifier.
We can see the instances in the negative
class often have large magnitude
negative scores.
And indeed the instances in the positive
class has positive scores from
the logistic regression classifier.
Likewise, the predict proba function
provides predicted probabilities of
class membership.
Typically a classifier which
use the more likely class.
That is in a binary classifier,
you find the class with
probability greater than 50%.
Adjusting this decision threshold affects
the prediction of the classifier.
A higher threshold means that
a classifier has to be more confident
in predicting the class.
For example, we might predict class one
only if the estimated probability of class
one was over 70%.
And this results in a more
conservative classifier.
Here's an example of getting these
prediction probabilities for
the test instances for
the same logistic regression classifier.
You can see that many entries
with a positive label of one,
have a high probability like 0.995.
While many negative label instances
have a very low prediction probability.
Note that not all models provide useful
probability estimates of this type.
For example, a model that was
over-fit to a trending set.
Might provide overly optimistic high
probabilities that were in fact
not accurate.
Now, we can use these decision scores or
prediction probabilities for
getting more complete evaluation
picture of a classifiers performance.
For a particular application, we might
pick a specific decision threshold
depending on whether we want
the classifier to be more or
less conservative about making
false-positive or false-negative errors.
It might not be entirely clear
when developing a new model,
what the right decision
threshold would be, and
how that choice will affect evaluation
metrics like precision and recall.
So instead, what we'll do is,
look at how classifier performs for
all possible decision thresholds.
This example shows how that works.
On the left here is a list of test
instances with their true label and
classifier score.
If we set a decision threshold, then
all the instances above that line, for
example if we set the decision
threshold to be -20 here.
Then, all the instances above the line
are below the threshold of -20.
So -20 or less and
all the instances in this
direction are above the threshold of -20.
And so the ones below the threshold
will be predicted to be in the- class.
And the ones above the threshold will
be predicted to be in the + class.
So, if we pick the specific threshold,
so in this case, -20.
And we partition the test
points in this way.
We can compute partition and
recall for the points that are predicted
to be in the positive class.
So in this case, we have 12
instances here, 12 total instances.
They're being predicted as positive and
only four of them, this one,
this one, this one, and
this one are actually positive and so
the precision here is 4 divided by 12 or
approximately 0.34.
The recall on the other hand,
there are four positive labeled instances
in the whole set of test examples here and
we've found all of them with this
particular threshold setting.
So the recall here is 4 out of 4, we
found all four positive labeled examples.
And so, for
this particular threshold of -20,
we can obtain precision on re
cost score for that threshold.
Let's pick a different threshold let's
look at what happened when the threshold
is -10?
Right here, so again anything
below this line is treated and
has a higher value than -10 here, so
those would be treated as + predictions.
Things above the line have a score below
-10, so these would be predicted to be
And again, we can compute a precision and
recall for
this decision threshold setting, and
we can see here that there are a total
of six instances in
the + prediction class.
Of which four are actually
of the positive class, and
so the precision here is 4 over 6 or
about 0.67.
And again, the recall here is going to
be 4 out of 4, and it's going to be 1.0.
Again, so that corresponds to this
point in the table over here.
And then as were computing these
different precision and recalls for
different Thresholds.
We can also plot them on
this precision recall chart.
So the first pair of precision
recall numbers that I got, 0.34 and
1.0, we can plot on this point
in precision recall space.
The second example, so
this was for the threshold of -20.
When the threshold was -10,
we got precision of .67 and
a recall of 1 corresponding to
this point that we can plot.
And so you can see that if we do this for
a number of other thresholds, for
example the threshold of 0,
we'll get a precision of 0.75.
And a recall of 0.75 that
corresponds to this point.
And in that choice of decision threshold.
And we can keep doing that for
different thresholds.
And we actually are plotting a series
of points through the space which
we can be connected at as a curve.
And so in this way, we can get a more
complete picture by varying the threshold
of how the precision and
recall of the result and
classifier output changes as
a function of the decision threshold.
And this resulting chart here is
called a precision recall curve and
we'll look at it in more detail next.